Online Movie Ticket Booking App - Documentation
1. Overview
The Online Movie Ticket Booking App is a web-based platform that allows users to browse movies, check showtimes, select seats, make bookings, and proceed with payment. The app includes several features such as user authentication (login/sign-up), private theater booking, and an easy-to-use interface for selecting movies and shows.

This document outlines the functional requirements, technical specifications, and implementation details for the app, including the frontend and backend components.

2. Functional Requirements
2.1 Home Page
Description: The homepage provides an interface for users to navigate the platform. It includes:
Single Slider for Ads: A carousel that displays promotional advertisements.
Multi-Slider for Movies: A carousel that shows available movies. Clicking on any movie redirects users to the movie details page.
2.2 Movie Detail Page
Description: When a user clicks on a movie in the multi-slider, they are redirected to the movie details page. The page includes:
Movie Details: Title, genre, duration, director, cast, and a description.
Select Date: A date picker allowing the user to select a show date.
Available Shows: After a date is selected, the system will display available showtimes for that date.
Select Showtime: The user selects a showtime which will redirect them to the seat selection page.
2.3 Seat Selection Page
Description: After selecting a showtime, users will be directed to the seat selection page, where they can:
View the theater's seating layout, with available and occupied seats.
Select seats for booking.
2.4 Booking Confirmation & Payment
Description: After selecting seats, users will proceed to the payment page:
Booking Confirmation: Users confirm their seat selection and proceed to payment.
Payment Gateway Integration: Users can complete the payment process through third-party services like Stripe, Razorpay, or PayPal.
2.5 User Authentication
Description:
Sign-Up: Users can register an account with email, password, and personal details (name, phone number, etc.).
Login: Registered users can log in using their email and password.
JWT Authentication: The system uses JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for secure authentication and session management.
2.6 Profile Page
Description: The profile page allows users to:
View their personal information.
View their past movie bookings.
Edit their profile information if needed.
2.7 Contact Us Page
Description: The contact page displays a form where users can submit inquiries or feedback. The form includes fields for:
Name
Email
Subject
Message
Submitting the form sends the message to the system administrator.
2.8 Private Booking
Description: Users can book private theaters for special occasions. The private booking process includes:
Choosing a movie and selecting a showtime.
Selecting the number of seats and other private booking options (e.g., food and beverages).
3. Technical Specifications
3.1 Frontend
The frontend of the app is built using React.js with the following components and features:

React Router: For navigation between pages (Home, Movie Details, Booking, etc.).
React Slick: For implementing both single and multi-sliders (for ads and movie listings).
React Datepicker: For selecting dates for movie bookings.
Formik/React Hook Form: For handling user authentication (sign-up and login forms) and the contact form.
Axios: For making API calls to interact with the backend.
3.2 Backend
The backend is built using Django and Django REST Framework for handling API requests. The backend also includes JWT authentication and payment gateway integration.

JWT Authentication: Secure user login and registration using JSON Web Tokens (JWT).
Django Models: For managing data related to users, movies, bookings, and contact forms.
Payment Integration: Integration with payment gateways like Stripe, Razorpay, or PayPal for ticket payment processing.
Email Notifications: For confirming bookings and sending user-related notifications.
4. Database Models
4.1 User Model
We will extend Django's default User model to include additional fields like profile_picture, phone_number, etc. The User model will be used for authentication and managing user-specific information.

4.2 Movie Model
The Movie Model represents the movies available for booking and contains the following fields:

title (CharField): The name of the movie.
genre (CharField): The genre of the movie.
duration (IntegerField): The duration of the movie in minutes.
director (CharField): The director of the movie.
cast (TextField): The cast of the movie.
description (TextField): A brief description of the movie.
image_url (URLField): URL for the movie poster or image.
4.3 Booking Model
The Booking Model keeps track of movie ticket bookings. It includes:

user (ForeignKey to User): The user who made the booking.
movie (ForeignKey to Movie): The movie that is being booked.
showtime (DateTimeField): The showtime selected by the user.
seats_selected (IntegerField): The number of seats selected.
total_price (DecimalField): The total cost of the booking.
4.4 Contact Form Model
The Contact Form Model is used to store user inquiries. It contains:

name (CharField): The name of the user.
email (EmailField): The email address of the user.
subject (CharField): The subject of the inquiry.
message (TextField): The message or inquiry from the user.
5. API Endpoints
5.1 User Authentication
POST /api/auth/signup/: Registers a new user.
POST /api/auth/login/: Authenticates a user and returns a JWT token.
5.2 Movie Information
GET /api/movies/: Retrieves a list of all available movies.
GET /api/movies/{id}/: Retrieves detailed information for a specific movie.
5.3 Booking
GET /api/bookings/: Retrieves the list of bookings for the authenticated user.
POST /api/bookings/: Allows users to create a booking by selecting a movie, date, time, and seats.
5.4 Contact Us
POST /api/contact/: Submits a contact form with the user's name, email, subject, and message.
6. Frontend Structure
The React frontend is organized into the following components:

cpp
Copy
/src
  /components
    /Home
    /MovieDetail
    /Login
    /SignUp
    /Profile
    /ContactUs
    /Booking
  /services
    api.js  // Axios functions for making backend API calls
  /App.js  // Main app entry point
  /index.js // Entry point for React
7. Security Considerations
JWT Storage: Store JWT tokens securely in HttpOnly cookies or localStorage, depending on your preference and security requirements.
HTTPS: Use HTTPS for all communication between the frontend and backend to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks.
Input Validation & Sanitization: Ensure that all inputs (e.g., user registration forms, booking details) are properly validated and sanitized to prevent SQL injection, XSS, and other security threats.
8. Testing
8.1 Unit Testing
Unit tests should be written for:

Models (User, Movie, Booking)
API endpoints (user authentication, movie data retrieval, booking creation)
React components (form submissions, movie selection, seat layout)
8.2 Integration Testing
Integration tests should verify the flow of the app, ensuring that:

Movie data is correctly fetched and displayed.
Users can successfully book tickets, select seats, and complete payments.
8.3 End-to-End Testing
End-to-end tests should simulate the entire user journey from:

Logging in or signing up.
Selecting a movie.
Making a booking.
Completing a payment.
9. Deployment
For deployment, you can:

Frontend: Deploy the React app to platforms like Vercel, Netlify, or a custom server.
Backend: Deploy the Django app to platforms like Heroku, AWS, or DigitalOcean.
Make sure to set up the following for production:

Use a production-grade database (e.g., PostgreSQL or MySQL).
Configure environment variables for secret keys, API tokens, and credentials.
